on August the 26th 1883 the tiny
volcanic island of Krakatoa
erupted creating one of the worst
natural disasters in recorded history in
less than 48 hours it destroyed hundreds
of towns and villages and left more than
36,000 people dead
those that survived the eruption left
diaries eyewitness accounts and
interviews they were collected by the
geologist Raja Verbeek one of the few
scientists who have witnessed the
eruption this film is based on those
accounts
that morning I didn't want to go to the
festival
filum tried to calm me the market
opening would be a joyous occasion
I was convinced that something dreadful
was going down
to take the attachment and secure the
where's its commands the arsalan fitting
telegraph office on the line up into
bottarga is that clear yes sir
I need attachment in the town and on the
pipe I'm ready in half an hour joy we're
not leaving
duty I have to stay here the maid you
see us leaving now right I take the
children back to that say okay no 25
miles away now please I know what I'm
doing
by now the volcano was in full eruption
every second almost a million cubic
meters of ash rock and pumice were being
forced out of the vent crashing down the
mountainside
this Avalanche had an extraordinary
effect on the sea it caused
unpredictable swells and rapid tidal
movements the volcano was about to claim
its first victims